So now that you have this equipped or
this new knowledge the exercise
now is to kind of continue on your
component exploration journey.
And now you have basically the opportunity
to architect your components kind of
however you see fit.
Do you want to go ahead and
just have these display components
that received data from the parent.
And then if it makes changes emit that
upwards or do you want to just keep
everything at the top like you can figure
out how you want to play around with that
and see what works well for
you All right, and we're back.
So, one of the questions that came up
during the exercise is people were playing
around.
And what they notice is,
is that if you mutate the prop,
everything does seem to work.
So in other words,
if you're in here, for example, and
we said this.user.name, right,
equals let's do Dominique.
Okay, again, it will technically work.
The principle I kind of want to
kind of stress here, it's not so
much that a question of whether or
not it works or not, but more so that.
When it comes to best practices for
architecting apps,
you want to keep it as easy as
possible to debug what's wrong.
This is why I'm also a big fan of
when you have error reporting, or for
example, we talked about styling later,
but when we go too far in terms of
our optimizations of like, well,
it's easier to just do this right.
It can make it tricky to track
where things are happening.
And so when it comes to UI,
a lot of it ends up boiling down
to where's your source of truth.
And when you allow your codebase to start,
sort of messing with that source of truth
in different places, all of a sudden
becomes a lot trickier to figure out
why and when something happened.
Whereas if you follow this pattern
of emitting for children to parent,
you'll always know that if in the future
the user has a bug where this list for
example is broken.
You'll know that basically you probably
should be looking at the parent and
basically, you probably ought
to solve it just off that alone.
But if you allow the mutation to profit
elsewhere all of a sudden that guarantee
becomes far less likely, it's because
you just don't know what's happening.
So I always err on the side of keeping
it easy when it comes to maintenance and
debugging.
Okay, so let's take a look
at this exercise, shall we,
okay That's all I want to know.
Okay, perfect.
So I'm gonna do is I'm gonna open up my
atla forum, actually just good, okay.
So atla forum, you great,
refresh, cool, okay.
So a good component to kind of illustrate
this is going to be the favoriting button.
Because we can see here
that inside of app.view,
we're actually managing our
favorite list here at the very top.
And so let's go ahead and
create that favorite list component.
So favorite list, great.
Actually, what I think favorite characters
is actually a bit more accurate.
Favorite characters, great.
And then I realized though actually wait,
I misspoke rather than the favorite
characters, we actually wanna
create individual character cards.
That's what we want, so
let me rename this now to CharacterCard.
And so, what we have here now,
what I did earlier in case when people
see that this is sfc code extension,
so are not an extension.
It's one of the shortened cards.
So it's a shortcode that I customised so
that when I type SFC for
single file component,
it will tell me my building watch me.
Okay, so what we have here is we
have this HTML that we basically
want to refactor,
which is what we are looping right here.
Okay, so I'm gonna go ahead and actually
just copy this as a div as a list item.
Let's just do it as a div.
Actually, this will be cleaner so
that it doesn't have to be in the list.
So we'll have a div and
the div will contain all this stuff.
Now, we need to move some
functionality over though.
So here's our placeholder.
We need to move the favorite
character functionality.
Okay, and I think we need a prop,
because we need to actually know
what character we're rendering.
So the character this case again
will be a type object and so
I'm not gonna actually break
down the individual properties.
And then that way we can get character
that name and then for now let's not
worry about the dysfunction because this
will break and then that's it, okay.
So to prove that this works, we're going
to go ahead and import our character card.
And then drop that here and then we're
gonna use it inside of our placeholder.
And we'll pass in
the character as a prompt.
So this is reusing all
the stuff that we did earlier.
Okay, everything is appearing as expected.
Now the difference here though is that
this favorite character functionality
doesn't work because, guess what,
this card does not care about its
responsibility is not to
track the favorite lists.
So to the point of what I was talking
about earlier you can theoretically pass
favorite list as a prop to this component.
And then you could have theoretically
the component update favorite lists.
But again, that starts to convolute
the scope of the data and
how it's being owned.
That's not his goal.
It's goal is to say, hey,
I'm gonna show a card of my characters.
And by the way, when someone clicks
the favorite event, I will go ahead and
tell the parent of
whatever context I'm in,
that the user decided they
wanted to favor this card.
Whatever you do with that,
that's up to you.
So what we gotta do here
is we'll define our emits.
Call and we'll just call it so we'll keep
it simple actually, because it emits
are scoped to this specific component,
which is call it a favorite event.
This is what's happening.
So now that we have the favorite event,
we can say, okay, well,
when this happens, this.emit,
what event are we emitting?
It's called favorite, but
more importantly, actually,
what we can do is we can
actually pass in an argument
to our emitted function,
which is this .character.
So we can save that and
then this time now you can click here
to favoriteCharacter, okay, great.
Now that we have this we can come
over here and then we can say yes so
on the character card we have this
favorite event that's gonna happen and
when it does we can say
addFavorite character And
so if you take a look now, let's update
this method called addFavorite character.
And what you end up getting because you're
passing it as an argument is a payload,
basically you can rename
it whatever you want.
But generally speaking,
we call it a payload because
this is coming from the event.
So again, the way this is connected
to show the side by side,
this tournament admits
this as the event name.
And this year the second argument
will basically be the payload.
So it's generally frowned upon for
example to
just keep adding to this if you're like,
I want to add like A custom Id like 123.
You wouldn't do this, you would
actually instead just pass a single
object that's like this is
the character and this is the id.
So payloads are typically
done in a single argument.
Try not just spread them out beyond that.
And like I said, if you need more nesting,
then by all means use an entre.
All right, but we don't need to do that.
So let's go ahead and
actually just emit the character directly.
And then with that payload,
we can actually just push that over.
So let's go ahead and
verify that this works.
Refresh, boom, and he's Zuko Aang bam.
And there you have it.
And that is a way that you can implement
the prompts in a way that lets you render
exactly what you need.
But then when you when it's time to
actually do something the child can tell
the parent that hey it's there's this
thing that I'm requesting please do what
you will with it.
Does anyone have any questions regarding
what the solution that we just
went to, over.
>> If you wanted to have your favorite
be a separate favorite module, and so,
you want to call that function in
another module in Shell module.
>> Okay.
>> From the template code or something.
>> So let me make sure I
understand the question correctly.
So let's say in the event you're
mentioning that the favorite Functionality
is something that's shared
amongst different UI components.
How would we share that amongst
the different components?
>> Yeah, or I mean specifically you
have a button with an at-click that says
favoriteCharacter.
>> Yep.
>> And let's say that function is actually
in a different module.
>> Okay, so with this button, you're
saying that this is in a different module.
So, okay, so you're saying that
in this example you'd have,
let's say we'd have a utilities folder
that has a, favorite.js, for example.
And so is that what you're kind of
referring to, where there's like
a function that like will,
>> Okay,
I was thinking have a component
that displays the favorites and
then have the ad favorite
function also inside there.
>> I see, okay, got it.
So the scope here is you're saying
that having the favorite lists scoped
with the component directly.
So actually, it's not this scenario.
The idea here actually being that,
instead let's go and
create that favoriteList characters.view.
And so in this case,
are you referring to the fact that like we
would be rendering out the list here then.
>> Yeah.
>> So got it.
So here okay, let's see, so
inside of here,
we're doing another refactoring here.
We have our data being the actual
favoriteList that's being tracked here.
And then this is where we're
actually rendering the favoriteList,
which is gonna be this block right here.
And apparently we have SFC condition,
so that is that whole thing.
And then drop that in here.
Okay, so that should be good.
FavoriteList is good.
That's good, okay.
Now the question here is we need
to import favorite characters.
So let's do that real quick favorite
characters and drop that as well.
And then once we have that you said
that you want to render it here.
FavoriteCharacters like this, okay.
>> And I guess you told me where you'd
put a function to addFavorites but for
the variables inside that module.
>> Right.
>> So how would you go about.
>> Okay, and then variables in here.
And I think something's missing
those something must be delta
resolve component because
I think I misspelled it.
What do you say?
>> Which favoriteCharacters
>> See the one [LAUGH] that gets me this
is why I generally do list anyhow.
Okay, no favoriteCharacters yet, okay.
So are you saying that in this
particular context you're saying,
we clearly have the favorite
functionality inside of the card here?
And you're saying that what if we had
like another section that also had like
a favorite button to add characters?
>> Guess am just says,
>> Yep.
>> How would you the data over into the
favorite list variable inside the favorite
characters component.
>> Yeah, this is where it gets tricky.
So at least with the tools that we have
now, you would basically have to do.
Okay, so if you've admitted this,
you would admit this.
I'm not sure if it actually makes sense
because so the thing about we have to
remember when it comes to emit some props
is that it's a top down relationship.
And the problem we're trying to solve
here is a sibling relationship because
character card contains data that bender
statistics are not binary statistics.
Favorite characters and character card are
trying to talk to each other basically,
at this point.
And so usually what happens at that point
is where you want some sort of alternative
state management solution.
Where you have like, basically,
as a preview is you'd have stores and
we probably would have
like a favorite store.
And the favorite store becomes a file that
becomes basically a JavaScript module
that's shared between the two
components that care about that.
And that way,
the updating becomes cleaner.
And in fact, what's interesting though,
is that once you start doing these stores,
sometimes the omit goes away actually
because now you're actually not thinking
about admitting to a parent,
you're just updating the store.
And so that can do a lot in terms of like
cleaning up code and that kind of stuff.
But I wanted to at least start with
the fundamentals of like if you're dealing
with two components parent child this
is like kind of like best practice for
how we approach things.
But then what tomorrow once we
talked about store module and
that kind of stuff is gonna
be all sorts of fun so.
>> The situation you have here this is
where that generic list component could be
useful.
>> Yep.
>> Where you're passing as a prop the list
of characters into one list, the list of
favorites into the others, and then using
functions to update those separate lists.
>> Exactly, yep.
Great.